---
categories:
- Uncategorized
date: '2012-02-06'
permalink: /focus/
title: Focus
url: /2012/02/06/focus
---

Last week, Adam Axon shared his tips on <a href="http://a-space-to-speak.posterous.com/focus">how he focuses and gets awesome stuff done</a>. We had a great discussion in the comments on his site, and I thought I'd share my personal system here.

What do you do to stay focused?

<!--more-->

<h2>Cutting the Noise</h2>

<ol>
<li>I only follow about 50 people on Twitter. I actually tend to unfollow more people than I add in any given month, so that number has slowly been going down. On Facebook the number is higher, because it's real life friends who generally don't make a lot of noise (unless you consider LOL cats noise).</li>
<li>I write just one blog. I have just one Twitter account. Reading blogs is my achilles heel. When I have books to read (typically fiction) the number is lower, but I'm between novels right now, so I'm reading blogs like mad to fill the void.</li>
<li>I tend to not watch a lot of TV, so yay there!</li>
</ol>

<h2>Working Smarter</h2>

<ol>
<li>I admit, I'm easily distracted. Worst thing about working at a computer is that there's <em>always</em> something to distract you. I've started doing more of my work "analog" in a Muji notebook when I can.</li>
<li>I check email every half-hour. It's almost never anything useful. That said, on days where I'm in the zone, I'll check it twice - once at the beginning of the day, and once at the end of the day.</li>
<li>I can't always do this, but when I can, I like to pick one project and work on nothing but that all day. I get <em>way</em> more done this way.</li>
<li>I found GTD far too complex. I now use a simple system:
- My calendar tells me when I have meetings.
- I keep one big to-do list... project headings, with sub-items for all the action steps beneath them.
- On most days I use a Fieldnotes notebook for a daily to-do list of 3 - 5 things that need to happen that day.</li>
<li>I also generally ignore my desk phone in the same way I ignore my email. I'll check voicemails periodically, and pick up my cell phone right away.</li>
</ol>

<h2>The Right Fuel</h2>

<ol>
<li>As you know, <a href="https://gomakethings.com/get-diesel/">I've started exercising again</a>. It's made a big difference.</li>
<li>I have an egg-and-cheese sandwich almost every day. As a guilty pleasure, I usually have sausage on it too. Trying to cut that out and replace it with fruit.</li>
<li>I don't drink much coffee, that I do require a daily cup in the morning. I wish I didn't need it.</li>
</ol>